2017-01-04
==========

Sleep: 8.5

## 19:45:56 CST

Just got home from St. Lucia today. During that time I didn't really use my phone at all. I had it on at night to be a white-noise-generator and I think Megan made me look something up on it once, but I didn't have it in my pocket at all throughout the week. Upon returning to the US, flying into Charlotte, I turned my phone back on. I found that my habitual reaching into my pocket just to look at the phone had come back. However, I realized that I hadn't missed my phone at all while I was gone, except for few times that some discussion was happening and it would have been really nice to Google something. I also didn't watch any TV/movies during the time, and didn't miss those either.

Some health-related things I decided to do while on vacation:

* Start running again. I've set a goal of doing the Houston Marathon in 2018, which gives me a little over a year to prepare. This is much more long-ranged planning than I've done in the past. I don't have to actually start the marathon training until roughly August. I thus have about 7 months to get a good base of training.
* Drop my weight down to 175 lbs prior to my next physical, which will be roughly my birthday.
* Be doing routine and serious stretching (such as Yoga) prior to ever running 3 miles.
* Start working out the day after we get back (5-Jan) and run my first 3 mile run by approximately 23-Jan.
* Fast until my afternoon workout

Some learning related stuff I thought about:

* I'd like to finally learn Lisp. I think going through SICP is the ticket. Supposedly after doing that jumping to Clojur or Common Lisp is trivial.
* A new MIT Probability class is starting in mid-January. I want to think about doing it.
* I need to be more user-focused with the wiki. We're doing a lot of things right now focused on making a strong server. I need to get back to making things people want.
* I need to work on for-fun/for-learning side projects besides the wiki

Some smaller things I thought about:

* Get a cheap, small, non-GUI computer (that has decent battery life) to do journaling on.
* Get a FitBit
* Get a private GitHub account so I can ultimately make this repo private

It's 20:30 now and Megan and I are going to go watch a movie or something. We had very little time to spend together on the trip.

## Tomorrow

* Work with Megan to:
  * Prioritize Neptune work
  * Prioritize Martinique work
  * Start cleaning up and getting rid of stuff we don't need
* Find SICP
* Find scale
