2017-01-05
==========

Sleep: 8.5
New seed: Priorities
  - Lead my family
  - Grow professionally
  - Do my day job
  - Be healthy
  - Say NO to things that jeopardize these priorities

## 08:08:24 CST

I have many competing priorities and need to do something about it. In order to reduce them I need to discard those that don't matter, avoid picking up any more, and complete those that are high-priority or easy to remove. Below are some of my conflicting priorities right now:

1. Finish Neptune and sell it
2. Finish Martinique
3. Be an EVA Task
4. Build the wiki
5. Be a good dad
6. Grow professionally
7. Be healthy

On top of that I also have some things that take away from the time I have to spend on those priorities. I spend too much time reading Hacker News. Though some time spent on that could be considered professional development, I have not been balancing that well with better sources of information. Better to take all of the hours I spent in 2016 reading HN and put it into reading SICP. It may not be enough to complete SICP (especially considering the casual way I read HN on the toilet and such) but it'd help. Another major thing that eats up my time is watching TV. I like football, and that takes up some number of hours on the weekend (though less this year due to all the construction work I've been doing). Also Megan and I like to watch shows together. That's good to an extent, as a way for us to spend some time together, but it's both not a great time-spending method and it has a tendency to eat too much time; we keep watching episode after episode.

Of the seven priorities above, in the last month I've really done well: 1, 4, and 5. I've worked on the following marginally: 2 and 3. The following I haven't done at all: 6 and 7. Assuming these are pretty standard numbers for what I can achieve, I need to have 3 things that I work well on, and 2 that are secondary for me. Finishing Neptune will be complete soon, so I can discard that one. "EVA Task" and "Build the wiki" both should be "do my day job" but are not right now. In my PA I intend to try to severely reduce my EVA role, if not eliminate it. At the very least I should be able to keep it as a secondary priority. Long term I probably need "Be healthy" to be a secondary priority, so that I do it at a level that I can maintain consistently throughout my life. I'd like to make some big gains (or losses in the case of weight) over the next 6 months, though, so I'd like to have it as a primary priority for now. Martinique is going to be a project for a long time, so I'd like to make it another secondary priority on the long haul. In the near term it'll likely be a higher priority, trying to get some bigger things done...but I'd like to avoid thinking that way.

So here are some preliminary restructurings, again assuming Neptune is done and my management agrees to lower my EVA role:

Primary:

1. ?
2. ?
3. Be healthy

Secondary:

4. Martinique
5. EVA

Uncategorized:

* Wiki
* Be a good dad
* Grow professionally

Above I said that I was doing "be a good dad" well, as a primary priority. I don't know that is entirely true. I think externally I appear to be being a good dad, and that probably says some things about how good I am, but I could do better and my kids need me to do better. Also "be a good dad" leaves my wife out of the equation to some degree. I could add another priority for "be a good husband" but at this point the two concepts are very intertwined. Perhaps a better title would be "be a good family man" or "lead your family". Willa needs some major leadership. Astrid doesn't outwardly appear to, but she's having some trouble in school and is generally approaching some of the most difficult years of her life. Megan has been very stressed out, which probalby stems from me being very stressed out. The vacation we just took was a good reset for me. I can see the end with Neptune and I've had some time to relax away from it, which should give me the energy to finish the job without showing my stress to my family. All of this makes me think I need to make "lead my family" my top priority. The only contention to that would be that "grow professionally"/do-my-job priorities affect my income which affects my families ability to go on vacations and do things together. I want to say that more money is not what my family needs, but lack of cash has been one of our biggest issues in the last year.

It'll be more natural for me to do my work over being a good leader for my family, so forcing my priority towards my family is probably a good idea so if I fall short of it it's still getting a pretty high prioritization.

Before attempting to write the above prioritization again with the decision I just made about family, I need to confront the fact that something has to be removed from the list; there are only two more spots for three more things. Again, EVA may be removed entirely soon. Martinique will absolutely be entirely removed at some point when it's "complete" (of course a house is never really complete, and there will always be things that need to be done, but they'll end up falling more into "lead my family" as I fix things that need fixing). So a year from now, translating "wiki" into just "job" and removing "EVA" and "Martinique" my priorities may look like:

1. Lead my family
2. Grow professionally
3. Job
4. Health

That's a much more manageable list. I can shift things around in that list easily month by month and it's not a big deal. Nothing is a big scary priority that's hard to adjust. Nothing is a ticking timebomb.

Taking the diff of that (where I want to be) with where I am, I get:

-Neptune
-Martinique
-EVA
-Wiki
+Job

This doesn't seem so revolutionary when I think about it. I've known I needed to shed the Neptune and Martinique priorities for a long time. The problem is actually doing it. However, having looked at what my future could be (four manageable priorities) gives me hope. It also sheds light on an important other consideration: In order for that future to actually be there once I shed these extra priorities, I also have to avoid attaining other priorities. So since I made room for a fifth priority by shedding some others, I can add that in as my new fifth:

1. Lead my family
2. Grow professionally
3. Do my day job
4. Be healthy
5. Say NO to things that jeopardize these priorities

So...how to get there? I need to shed Neptune as fast as possible for a couple of reasons. One, we need to sell it ASAP, so making it the highest priority and removing all other priorities where possible is valuable to us. Two, my dad will be coming back to Texas soon and I'd rather put his efforts towards Martinique. He'll nitpick tiny details that don't matter at Neptune, and it'd be better not to waste his and my time on it. Another top priority needs to be removing EVA from my list of things to do. I think demonstrating to Peter that I've made a self-building wiki system that sets up all the servers will do a lot to make him able to give me a job over there. I also need to tie up loose ends in EVA.

So, until Neptune is done, here are my priorities:

1. Neptune
2. Get out of EVA: Build wiki server awesomeness, tie up EVA loose ends
3. Lead my family
4. Be healthy
5. Say NO to things that jeopardize these priorities

Once it's complete, they become:

1. Lead my family
2. Get out of EVA: Build wiki server awesomeness, tie up EVA loose ends
3. Martinique
4. Be healthy
5. Say NO to things that jeopardize these priorities

Despite the fact that I want to start the probability class, and I want to start reading SICP, and to learn a million other things...I have to give up on those for now. I need to complete those other priorities first. 

The last thing to think about is what all these priorities mean. What does first priority mean versus second? Clearly it doesn't mean always do 1 over 2 if there's anything to do in 1. "Lead my family" will always have something to be done as long as I have a family. I don't know what it really know how differentiate most of them, but I think for now "be healthy" needs to be kept minimal. I need to do it, and I need to do it consistently, but it cannot be all-consuming. In fact, doing it consistently but as minimally as possible is probably ideal. I'll gradually increase my physical wellbeing without overstressing myself. I'll also build good habits. So what does it mean? I'll start fasting until at least 5pm each day. That doesn't add any time to my day, and in fact generally will reduce time taken to eat. Before I eat, I'll always do something physical, but it will be minimal. Ten minutes of pushups/situps/pullups/squats, a short run, some stretching.

## To do today

* Work with Megan to:
  * Need to remove Neptune from my list of things to do:
    * Push hard to finish it
    * Pay Junior where appropriate
  * Need to remove Martinique from my list of things to do:
    * Be done with Neptune before my dad gets here (he'll nitpick it to death)
    * Figure out how to pay for things
  * Need to remove EVA from my list of things to do:
    * PA is coming up
  * Prioritize Neptune work
  * Prioritize Martinique work
  * Start cleaning up and getting rid of stuff we don't need
  * Willa's party
  * Grade-payments
  * Homeschooling
* Cleanup
  * Do laundry
  * Clean the fridge
  * Get groceries
  * Build shelf, get shelves from Neptune/Ikea
  * Find SICP
  * Find scale
