2017-01-06
==========

Sleep: 8.25

## 07:29:57 CST

Vacation is over. Yesterday I was home all day, and I did things (I didn't just lay around), but they were almost like an epilogue to the vacation. I started really writing in this journal, and spent a significant time going over priorities in my life. I cleaned up around this house a bit, and discussed life with Megan. We got started cleaning/dejunking all the boxes of stuff we haven't unpacked yet.

Today I go back to Neptune, with the goal of finally finishing it. I won't accomplish that goal today, but this is the beginning of the final push. I don't have a lot of drive to do it, but there's no other choice. I've said we need to get Junior to do things that make sense. Today I need to slam though the electrical.

So that's what I'm doing today (and Saturday, and Sunday, and probably nights next week), and how I feel about it. Is that what this journal is for?

I think so. I think this journal is to some degree to state what I'm doing and how I feel about it. By writing these thoughts down it causes me to reflect upon my situation. But that's only part of the reason for the journal. I decided I wanted to start doing this in the morning because I realized I was spending my mornings reading Hacker News and consuming other peoples' ideas. Many people have good ideas, so it's not a bad thing...but it wasn't good as the only thing I was doing. I need to also explore my own ideas. So I'd like to start doing this every morning as part of my wakeup routine. I have plenty of time throughout the day to read HN, whether it's when I take a break at work, or am waiting for something, or whatever. My phone is always with me and HN is always available. 

This morning I have to go do something I don't really want to do, so it makes sense that it would be on my mind and I'd want to say something about it. But what about an uneventful morning, where I'm getting ready for work with no noteworthy things to do that day? On those days I can write about whatever. Perhaps I'll describe an app I'd like to build, or a project I'd like to work on with the kids.

Some mornings I may not have something in mind to write about, though, and on those mornings I'd like to have a function called "seeds". Seeds are questions or ideas or concepts that I've recorded as I've read other things or had my own other ideas as possible good starting points for journal entries. A possible seed might be "Think of ten business ideas" or the cliche "what would you do if you knew you could not fail?". 

How will this seed concept be built? I could write it in minutes in PHP, Javascript, or Python, but I need to branch out. Perhaps the easy way to branch out would be to pick another major language or growing language like Go, Rust, Java, Perl, C/C++, Ruby, Scala, or Haskell. These would be easy (in most cases, though I don't know a lot about all of them) to do things like setup webservers and connect to databases because there are a lot of people doing that. I'd like to finally learn Lisp, though. I'd like to spend the time required to learn Lisp, and build something in it.

Last night I got SICP on my phone. I mostly skimmed though the first chapter. I think I've read it before, plus it's pretty introductory. I'm going to keep going through it, but it may not be fast-paced enough for what I'm hoping to do. I'd like to just start hacking away at Lisp, and SICP, I think, is going to be very theory-based. There's also Practical Common Lisp, which I think is also freely available. I could get that and see how that goes. I'm guessing Common Lisp is probably better suited for developing a full application. Maybe not though. Scheme, if I recall correctly, is more of an educational language, and thus has fewer things built in. Anyway, I digress.

I want to build the whole Journal application in Lisp. It's a pretty simple app (for now anyway) so it'll be a good little project to get started. The first part of it (that initiates each day's journal file) is written in Shell. So perhaps step 1 is to rewrite that in a Lisp. From there I'll develop the seeds concept.

Seeds could work like this: create a script that takes arguments like:

* `seed add "what would you do if you knew you could not fail?"`
* `seed list all|5|random` (lists in terminal, gives gives option to add one to today's journal)

I think for starters, storing the data in a text file makes sense. I'm not sure about parsing YAML/JSON in Lisp. That may be good for multiline and such. 

## Tonight

* Rewrite now.sh in Lisp