2017-01-10
==========

Sleep: 6.1

## 06:38:44 CST

I got up an hour earlier than intended this morning...sort of. I set my alarm for 5:30 (why?) and when it went off I thought it was 6:30 and that the girls would be getting up to get in the shower, so I got up quickly to shower before them. When I got out it was 5:45. I thought this was a good thing, since it'd give me some quiet time to write in my journal or maybe do some other quiet work. But instead I read HN for an hour. Granted, I finally completed reading the piece on "the science of Westworld" which was interesting, but I also wasted a bunch of time reading opinions on the Medium blogging platform. Then again, there was some use in that. One person said something like "just because I have the technical capability to host my own blog doesn't mean I should. It will always be lower priority than everything else, so it will always suffer. Better to let an off-the-shelf provider handle everything for me." I think this was the RoR creator in a blog entry about Medium. Another benefit of Medium was that it greatly increased readership due to the large community.

One possible outcome of writing these journal entries is to start creating content that is publishing-worthy. At some point whatever ideas I have here could become blog entries (despite thus far mostly being collections of "today I did this" statements). If I do start to blog I think I should only do so when I have three polished stories, and several (3-10) more concepts ready to expand. Also I should use an off-the-shelf platform (like Medium) that allows custom domain names (I think Medium does this, probably costs money) so I can move my provider at some point if I want.

## Neptune

I failed to get much done at Neptune yesterday. I went in the morning, did some prep work for the night, but then didn't go back at night. I was hungry by the time I was done at work, and Megan was making dinner, and I was tempted home. To avoid this, I need to avoid fasting until Neptune is done. I will eat lunch from now until it is complete.

## Meza

I have not done anything on Meza in 2017. I need to make it so a single VM can setup the other VMs. Get started with Ansible today.